AMP-1012: Add migration to NGINX agent guide (#83)
nginxinc/nginx-amplify-doc: content/nginx-agent/install/migrate-to-nginx-agent.md

---

> title: Migrate to NGINX Agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Migrating from Amplify Agent to NGINX Agent
```

This is more explicit about where the migration is from. Clearer to a reader at a glance and likely better for SEO in terms of people searching for instructions (Don't hold me to that, SEO is arcane arts).

Author: Great suggestion. I never even considered SEO. Will fix now. 😄

description: Learn how to migrate to the NGINX Agent from the Amplify Agent.
weight: 200
toc: true

> tags: ["docs"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
tags: ["docs"]
docs: DOCS-1342
```

Adding the catalog entry for this new doc.

I'm conscious that many AMP docs haven't been added to the catalog. We will take care of this separately.

---

This stepwise guide will walk you through how to migrate to the NGINX Agent from a previous Amplify Agent deployment. For more indepth details on how to install the NGINX Agent please see the [install docs]({{< relref "/nginx-agent/install/installing-nginx-agent" >}}).

## Migrate to NGINX Agent

1. Connect to your data plane instance

Using your preferred method connect to your data plane instance that is currently running NGINX and the Amplify Agent.

2. Stop your running Amplify Agent

```bash
sudo systemctl stop amplify-agent
```

**Note:** The new NGINX Agent can run alongside the old Amplify Agent. If you would like to ensure the new NGINX Agent is running as expected you may optionally defer this step til the end.

> 3. (Optional) Ensure NGINX Agent is available

Reviewer: If this step is optional, then it shouldn't be in this section. It seems like it's necessary, in which case I might restructure the documentation to list it as a pre-requisite.

There's various templates in use across the NGINX products that outline what are considered commonly useful sections: an example would be [Allowed HTTP Methods](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-management-suite/acm/how-to/policies/allowed-http-methods/#before-you-begin) under the NGINX Management Suite API Connectivity Manager: it has a "Before You Begin" section which is named "Prerequisites" elsewhere.

I would make a working NGINX Agent installation a prerequisite, linking to it from that section. From there, you can write the "critical path" with the expectation it is installed.

The NGINX Agent uses a different endpoint to submit data than the Amplify Agent. If need be please ensure that the endpoint `receiver-grpc.amplify.nginx.com` on port `443` is available from src instances.

4. Locate your API key

* In the UI click on the drop down for your account
* In the drop down select the Account option
* Your account details will contain your API key which you will need to copy for the next step

5. Install the NGINX Agent with your API key

On your same data plane instance that is now presently only running NGINX run the following to install the NGINX Agent:

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
```

`bash` and `shell` both highlight the same way, but we favour `shell` because it's more generic. I've been using `zsh` for years!

curl -sS -L -O \
https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-amplify-agent/raw/master/packages/install-nginx-agent.sh && \
API_KEY='YOUR_API_KEY' sh ./install-nginx-agent.sh
```

> Using your API key which you identified in your previous step replace `YOUR_API_KEY`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the API key you identified in the previous step, replace `YOUR_API_KEY`.
```

> 6. Verify that the NGINX Agent is running
> 
> ```bash
> $ ps ax | grep -i 'nginx-agent'
>   33764 ?        Ssl    0:18 /usr/bin/nginx-agent
> ```
> 
> If successful you ought to see the executable running the NGINX Agent along with its process ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

6. Verify that the NGINX Agent is running

You can verify that NGINX Agent is running by using `ps` to locate its process:

```shell
ps ax | grep -i 'nginx-agent'
  33764 ?        Ssl    0:18 /usr/bin/nginx-agent
```

If the process is running, it should return its executable path and an ID as shown in the example above.

```

The dollar sign prevents someone from being able to copy the command easily: this could actually be split into input and output codeblocks to make the process even easier.  

It can feel slightly redundant to explain the command before its usage, but people read top to bottom and it contextualises what the command they're being asked to use is intended for, as opposed to just seeing a random block of shell content and an explanation afterwards.

Reviewer: The above edit suggestion keeps breaking and I have no idea how to fix it.

> **Note:** The NGINX Agent ought to also be enabled on system reboot running as `nginx-agent`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** The NGINX Agent ought to also be enabled on system reboot running as `nginx-agent`.
```

There's multiple instances of this elsewhere, but 'ought' is very casual in tone and shouldn't be used in documentation. This note could be converted to a callout as in the example above, and as a general principle of user experience, if you're telling the user to do something, you should provide them the step or steps to do so, either by including them in the document or linking to a different page that does.

In this particular case, it might also make sense to change this to a warning callout instead of a note, if it could possibly cause issues - or make this its entire own step if it is absolutely necessary.
